# Incident: 2025-04-04 3-45-00 UTC

## Summary

Between the hour of 15:45 and 15:47 on April 4th 2025, 5 users encountered the inability to order pizzas from the fatory. The event was triggered by a spike in pizza order latency at 15:45. The increase in latency was caused by a failure in the pizza factory to process orders

The event was detected by a developer monitoring the logs and metrics. The team started working on the event by inspecting the logs and pizza failures. This catostrophic incident affected 10% of users

## Detection

This incident was detected when a JWT Pizza engineer was monitoring the logs and metrics and noticed a spike in the pizza latency. Alerts will be set up on pizza latency by Josh Clancy so that detection is still quick without constant supervision

## Impact

For 00hrs and 02 minutes between 15:45 and 15:47 on 04/04/2025 our users were unable to order pizzas from the factory. 

This incident affected 5 customers (10% OF JWT Pizza USERS), who experienced the inability to buy pizzas from the factory

1 SUPPORT TICKET AND 0 SOCIAL MEDIA POSTS were submitted.

## Timeline

All times are UTC.

- _13:45_ - pizza factory goes down
- _13:46_ - monitoring engineer notices a spike in pizza latency
- _13:47_ - monitoring engineer inspects logs and notices failures in pizza factory
- _13:48_ - engineer employs fix and resolves the issue

## Response

After noticing a spike in pizza latency at 15:45, Josh Clancy came online in Grafana logs and diagnosed and resolved the problem at 15:47

## Root cause

A bug in the pizza factory that lead to the inability to order pizzas from the pizza factory

## Resolution

By tracking down the error log and pasting the url into a search engine, the error was able to be resolved

## Prevention

No previous root cause has ever occured before. 

## Action items

The action that needs to take place is proper maintaining of monitoring of the pizza factory which is opperated by Lee Jensen.

